now the way to line the tin is to take
the edge of the pastry and wrap it over
the rolling pin so you roll it all
around the rolling pin like that then
slide your tin into the center and then
put the tip over the edge of the tin and
then just unroll it
that's quite an easy operation now the
thing to remember here is it's very
tempting now to start smoothing it out
and stretching it and that's the thing
you don't want to do what you want to do
is ease it in and not stretch it out so
when you're putting the pastry and just
ease it down
and because pastry is likely to shrink a
little bit in the oven it's important
that you get good strong walls I always
like to think of this bit as sort of
building a wall and reinforcing a wall
just push it down like that and make a
nice strong sturdy wall now if you find
that you've got a little bit of wall as
I have in this side here which isn't
quite as thick as the others take a
piece of pastry off where you've got a
thick bit and just press that in and
reinforce it you can do all these little
tricks it doesn't really matter nobody's
going to know and what you're really
aiming at is good sturdy walls now I
haven't wasted any pastry there and I
often just leave a little bit sticking
up at the edge just to allow for
shrinkage but if you want to be a
perfectionist and you want to have very
neat edges then you can just take a
knife and just slide the knife round
like that
which means that you'll have neater
edges but you'll also have little bits
of pastry leftover so I never really
bother with that that's all that's
needed press the base over because you
want all the air out from underneath
it's air trapped underneath that causes
pastry to rise up whilst it's cooking
and then just to make sure you have a
pot in the air trapped or if you have to
let it out
prick the base and don't worry when
you're pricking it that the filling will
fall through because the pricks will
seize up now this is going to be baked
what's called baked blind sometimes
that's confusing for beginners but
baking blind means that you're going to
bake it in the oven without any filling
in it before the filling goes in to get
the pastry nice and crisp
before the filling goes in because we
want to have a crisp edge that's what
we're aiming at and the thing to do is
to place that on another very important
piece of kitchen equipment and that is
this have one of these a nice solid
baking sheet in the oven put this on it
because this is a good conductor of heat
as well you've got a nice solid baking
sheet which will be very hot and that'll
cook the base so it's very crisp
underneath a lot of people are always
asking me how can I get the underneath
of my flans crisp well that's one of the
ways then you put that in the oven and
provided you've lined it carefully and
pricked it you don't need grease proof
paper or baking beans or any of those
things that cause extra bother and if
you find it starts to rise up a little
bit have a look halfway through and just
sort of slap it down again or prick it
again with a fork it'll be perfectly all
right now give that 15 minutes in the
oven that's at gas mark for 350 degrees
Fahrenheit and then take it out and as
an extra precaution I've got one here to
show you that's being pre baked as an
extra precaution just paint over the
pastry shell with beaten egg and what
that does is it sort of gives it an
extra crispness because you put it back
in the oven put it back in the oven for
another five minutes and then when it
comes out it really is lovely and crisp
and firm before the filling goes in and
that's again what we're aiming at